https://drive.google.com/file/d/1HIBUFPCWba6YWT3CjZx2joZ3YaQ4XpzG/view?usp=sharing


1.
For every additional element, why you are adding it:

 An aditional server:
   to improve reliability and accecebility to avoid an overload of the server

 A new loadbalancer:
   for almost an equal load distribution between the the two servers




2.
What distribution algorithm your load balancer is configured with;

	Round Robin

And how it works?

	Clients request are assigned to each server in turn.
	The algorithm instructs the load balancer to reiterate the process again.


  
3.
Is your load-balancer enabling an Active-Active or Active-Passive setup, explain the difference between both?

  Active-Passive


  Active-Active setup:
    in active-active setup, there are multiple nodes workin together, distributing equal workload bewtween servers.

  Where as;
  Active-Passive setup:
    In Active-Passive setup, there is just one Node actively working(active) and the the second server(Passive) which accepts
    load when the acive server is overloaded



4.
How a database Primary-Replica (Master-Slave) cluster works?

  Master-Slave replication enables data from one database server{master} to be replicated to one or more other database servers(The slaves).

  the slave database serves as the backup for the master database.


5.
What is the difference between the Primary node and the Replica node in regard to the application?
  
  The primary node the main server which is been used, the replica node is the server which serves as the backup{passive} to avoid SPOF in the  primary node.



SPOF:
  
  the load balancer here is a potential single point of failure, beacuse it is in active-passive state and so, if it fails there wont be any
  backup of data.

Security issues (no firewall, no HTTPS):

  The absence of Firewalls or Secure HTTP {HTTPS} to filter requests coming in from the public network
  to the private networks exposes the system to cyber threats which will impact the system negatively.


No monitoring:

  The absence of system monitoring software/tools which provides metrics
  maintenance status and other info will impact the system's High Availabity and reliability.

